# Bitstyles version compatibility

General rules:

- We don't drop bitstyles version support. Users of bitstyles_phoenix should be able to upgrade bitstyles_phoenix to the newest version without having to upgrade bitstyles.
- We don't skip bitstyles versions. Users of bitstyles_phoenix should be able to upgrade bitstyles to any version between the highest and lowest currently supported bitstyles version.

## Doctests ("stories")

The `story` macro is used to generate doctests, as well as the component preview in docs.

The first argument is the story's description (`"An error tag"`), the second argument is an iex code snippet, and the third argument is the expected result when the code snippet gets executed. The third argument can be a single charlist, or a keyword lists that maps bitstyles version numbers to charlists. If the third argument is a single charlist, it's assumed that is the expected result for the default bitstyles version.

⚠️ Note that the 4 space indentation in the code snippet and the expected result is important.

### Multi-version doctest example

```elixir
  story(
    "An error tag",
    '''
        iex> assigns = %{}
        ...> render ~H"""
        ...> <.ui_error error={{"Foo error", []}} />
        ...> """
    ''',
    "4.3.0": '''
        """
        <span class="u-fg-warning">
          Foo error
        </span>
        """
    ''',
    "3.0.0": '''
        """
        <span class="u-fg--warning">
          Foo error
        </span>
        """
    '''
  )
```

## Versions showcase

A showcase of components in all supported bitstyles versions can be generated by running:

```bash
mix run scripts/generate_version_showcase.ex
```

The script accepts multiple `--only` arguments if you want to limit the showcase to only a handful of versions:

```bash
mix run scripts/generate_version_showcase.ex --only 4.3.0 --only 4.2.0
```

This script will create a `version_showcase` directory with static web pages. Open the starting page with:

```bash
open version_showcase/index.html
```

## How to upgrade the default bitstyles version in bitstyles_phoenix?

1. Choose the smallest possible version jump (do not skip versions).
2. Read about the changes in version in [the bitstyles Changelog](https://github.com/bitcrowd/bitstyles/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
3. Update the highest supported version mentioned in the [README](../README.md).
4. Update the `@default_version` in [`BitstylesPhoenix.Bitstyles`](../lib/bitstyles_phoenix/bitstyles.ex).
5. Add the new version to the version lists in [`generate_version_showcase`](../scripts/generate_version_showcase.ex).
6. Handle classes renamed by bitstyles by adding new clauses of the `classname/2` function in [`BitstylesPhoenix.Bitstyles`](../lib/bitstyles_phoenix/bitstyles.ex).
7. If renaming classes is not enough to upgrade correctly, you can perform [a bitstyles version check in a component](#an-example-of-a-bitstyles-version-check-in-a-component).
8. Run `mix test`. Fix all doctests until `mix test` succeeds. Add new expected values for the new version, and keep the current expected value for the previous version (see [multi-version doctest example](#multi-version-doctest-example))
9. Run `mix docs` to preview components after making changes to them.
10. Use the [versions showcase](#versions-showcase) to test that you didn't break anything for older bitstyles versions.

### An example of a bitstyles version check in a component

```elixir
def ui_tricky_component(assigns) do
  version = BitstylesPhoenix.Bitstyles.Version.version()

  if version >= {5,0,0} do
    ~H"""
      <p class={classnames("u-new-class-that-does-everything")}>...</p>
    """
  else
    ~H"""
      <div class={classnames("u-old-class1 u-old-class2")}>
        <div class={classnames("u-old-class3")}>
          ...
        </div>
      </div>
    """
  end
end
```

## Adding new components

Ideally, if you're adding a completely new component, make sure it works with all supported bitstyles versions by using the [versions showcase](#versions-showcase) to test it.

If it's not practical to support it in other version, you can perform [a bitstyles version check in the component](#an-example-of-a-bitstyles-version-check-in-a-component).
